# Organization

Brampton Hockey Inc. is the largest non-profit hockey organization representing a single community in Ontario. As a major provider of hockey services for the entire city of Brampton, the company represents an institution of hockey for over 2000 families.

# Repository Description

This repository is a Data Analysis Portfolio which contains social media performance metrics collected and transformed in MS Excel and its respective PowerBI analysis that analyzes their social media presence weekly and wholisticly during their 10 week social media campaign that has been operated by our team of 10 University of Waterloo student bodies. The social media performance metrics of 23 posts have been collected across Instagram and Facebook as of March 30, 2023 with 25 posts collected from Twitter as of April 5, 2023. 

# Metric Description

Number refers to the number of posts. Accounts Engaged is the number of likes and comments in relation to the number of account followers. Time Periods are as follows; Morning: 5 AM to 12 PM, Afternoon: 12 PM to 5 PM, Evening: 5 PM to 9 PM, Night: 9PM to 5AM. Twitter Impressions is the number of times tweets were seen on twitter. Engagement rate for both Instagram and Twitter is the total number of engagement in relation to the number of views. Profile Attraction rate is the number of profile activity in relation to the number of accounts reached.
        
# Data Analysis / Recommendations

The number of accounts engaged and profile visits on Instagram increased over the three months as our posting schedule became consistent, enlisting the need to develop a strategic positioning schedule moving forward. In relation to the number of accounts reached, there is room for improvement with accounts engaged and profile activity. To maximize in both areas, we recommend creating a posting paired with a call to action that resonates with our audience. Similarly, the number of likes has shown to be the highest engagement method compared to comments, shares, and saves. Comments provide valuable insight into our audience feedback and thoughts whereas shares and saves indicate content that others may be interested in. While a high number of likes shows the effectiveness of our audience appeal, we recommend creating postings that enlist a call for higher level of engagement for deeper analytical research and interacting with our audience in the comment section to further develop our community relations. 

Instagram demonstrates the highest average engagement rate per post of 7.25 percent at night with the highest average accounts engaged of 51 and the highest average profile attraction rate per post of 2.34 percent in the morning. We recommend posting in the morning on Instagram when the goal is to generate profile interest and a higher conversion rate when looking to achieve higher url clicks in the profile bio. Conversely, we recommend posting at night to increase social interaction with the page’s media content to achieve higher brand awareness, larger audience reach, and a loyal community of supporters. This may be the best option for a good balance of both metrics as the second highest profile attraction rate is seen when posted at night. 

Facebook has shown similar engagement growth rates throughout the three months with the majority of the postings occurring in the evening and night time periods. Despite this, most of our like engagement occurred in the afternoon with an average of 9 likes per post, indicating that the social media contents were well received by our audience. To maximize engagement in future postings, we recommend scheduling postings from 12PM to 5PM. In the morning, we saw the highest average comment of one and the highest average shares of 0.60 per post which could be an alternative posting schedule if achieving audience thoughts and opinions that are also being exposed to another group of audience from the audiences’ own network through the share feature is the goal for the organization.

The results show Twitter is best posted in the evening with the highest average of 2.14 likes per post, indicating a higher engagement rate. The evening also had the highest average impression of 261.71 Twitter views per post generating a similar average engagement rate of 0.93 percent and a similar 0.43 retweet average when compared to the other time periods. As such, we recommend scheduling posts from 5PM to 9PM on Twitter as this time is considered the perfect middle ground to maximize social likes engagement and public Twitter views while maintaining a solid retweet average. Across all time periods, we found posts failed to generate any reply engagement metric. This indicates that we did not compel our audience to respond to our post or that our audience may prefer engaging with our content through other social media channels with Instagram and Facebook.

Across the social platforms of Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter, Instagram has shown the most engagement with 727 engagement metrics recorded. Facebook showed the second most with 169 engagement metrics recorded followed by Twitter with 52 engagement recorded. We recommend focusing social media efforts on Instagram such as experimenting with different kinds of posts as it proves to be the most effective platform for engaging with our audience. We also recommend branching to other social platforms like YouTube to better engage with our audience with video based content, live streams of hockey games, and creating exposure with a new group of audience.
